more finds through colors is really good
news this is exactly the kind of
positive sign we're looking for I just
hope she's one of our two
you just caught our first sight of the
mother and the Cubs but they got a bit
spooked by the son of the ski-doos and
ran off behind that moraine over there
but it seems that this is the areas that
they're using quite a lot we've seen a
lot of their tracks and she's been
suckling her cubs here
Jason's confident this is one of our
bears he spent many months observing me
let Myka bears he's worked with before
and sure enough he proves to be right
what a fantastic site that is a polo
their mother with her two little Cubs
she would have just emerged out of the
maternity den after a period of five to
six months being pregnant and then
nursing the Cubs one thing's for sure is
that now after all that time she is
ravenously hungry
she's definitely hunting for food she's
using her keen sense of smell to sniff
for seals she appears to be doing really
well and those Cubs certainly look in
good shape
that nose is working overtime and now I
can see why a second mother and Cubs it
can't be yet astonishingly it's our
second mother
this is the most extraordinary piece of
luck after days of searching for these
two bears both females appear on the
same afternoon in the same place within
a few kilometers of each other and the
wonderful news is that both of them have
got Cubs this is better than we ever
hoped for both bears have done much more
than simply survived the years of
starvation
they've also each managed to nurse two
new Cubs through the hazards of the
latest Arctic winter